a record number of people worldwide were
displaced last year according to the
internal displacement Monitoring Center
its research shows nearly 76 million
people were forced from their homes most
were displaced by conflict and violence
others by natural disasters nearly half
were in Africa the UN says the conflict
in Sudan has caused the world's worst
displacement crisis this report says
that by the end of last year more than
N9 people 9 million people had been
forced to flee Israel's war on Gaza
forcibly displaced 1.7 million people in
the 3 months between October and
December and 4.7 million people in
turqua and Syria are living in temporary
shelters and containers after
devastating earthquakes there Barbara
Anga
reports a watchdog says War drove Global
displacement to a record 76 million
people last year the report from the
internal displacement Monitoring Center
says the number of displaced people
doubled in The Last 5 Years these
Palestinians arriving at al- maasi area
on gaza's western coast have been on the
Move since Israel's war on Gaza began in
October we've been displaced four times
and now we live with my uncle's family
in Al maasi but there is no space for us
here violence in Gaza Sudan and the
Democratic Republic of Congo drove 2/3
of the displacements in
2023 in the final quarter of the Year
Israel's war on Gaza forcibly displaced
1.7 million
Palestinians and in the Democratic
Republic of Congo fighting between
government troops and Rebels uprooted
6.7 million people since the conflict in
San started in April 9.1 million people
have been driven from their homes the
second highest number recorded in a
single country since records began in
2008 4-year-old y was orphaned as her
family tried to escape from sedan to
Chad during fighting between rival
forces her mother who was 8 months
pregnant was killed and she was left all
alone some people found her on the road
and brought her back here on the road we
suffered a lot the rapid support forces
killed and wounded so many
people but the report says the crisis is
just the tip of the iceberg tens of
millions of people remain displaced from
previous and ongoing Wars and disasters
extreme weather and natural disasters
also contributed to the global Spike of
internally displaced people floods
storms earthquakes and wildfires
displaced more than 26 million people
Barbara Anga Al
jazer let's focus on the case of Sudan
Sara Pantano is the chief executive of
the think tank overseas development
Institute you also led the UN
development program's Sudan peace
building unit and you're joining us from
London thank you for your time
today start by describing what life is
like for internally displaced people in
Sudan so as the report um your colleague
just mentioned this is the worst the
largest internal displacement crisis of
these 9 million 7 million people are
displaced within Sudan just to give you
a sense the population of Kum a year ago
was 6 million people now only 1 million
remain um people are on the move all the
time they have to flee and flee again
you know we know there 750,000 people
have crossed Chad that includes 200,000
almost 100,000 that were chadan refugees
so people that left Chad to seek refuge
in darur and now I have fled again
because the violence is is in darur is
so horrible um and what we know is that
the the the level of the violence is
what terrifies me people more than
anything you know Human Rights Watch
documented last year um there's been
pretty much ethnic cleansing against the
Mas tribe in darur so it's the violence
is the fear of you know being being
killed of course but it's also the
hunger crisis because we are seeing um
the the the threat of famine in Sudan um
on levels that we haven't seen for many
many years and we have seen famine
before in the country so we know what to
expect
I I I'd like for our viewers to get an
understanding of the long-term impact of
something like this when we say that
there have been 6 million
displacements uh over the course of just
one year as was the case in Sudan you
know that that affects it's it's 6
million people for that year but it
actually affects them for many many many
years to come if not for their entire
life absolutely it's actually 9 million
people you know 6.7 are only those who
are within the country the rest fled
across the borders um and yes we know
that you know crisis when the
displacement crisis where people don't
go back to their homes for six months
they are likely to remain in
displacement for three years we know
that if they stay um away for more than
a year they will be back for five and if
they stay away for three they will be
back for 10 and probably will never go
back so all these figures are well
established we have done a lot of
research on these things in to over the
years um so we know what to expect and
what people need to imagine is what it
means to be you know uprooted for such a
long time you know for kids not to be
able to go back to school not to be in
education obviously for you know
productive um activities to completely
stall you know to completely hold and
not be able to to to be resumed but
obviously what we're most concerned
about right now is not the long term is
the immediate term and as I was saying
before we are seeing so many parts of
the countries at you know levels of food
insecurity are extremely high now food
insecurity is calculated on a range from
one to five and last December we already
had a lot of areas of Sudan that were in
phase four which is emergency and then
moving into catastrophe security canc
was just briefed last month about you
know the imminent danger of a
catastropic fing in Sudan yeah the the
faces the phases of food insecurity are
something we've been we've become quite
familiar with on aljazera uh whether
it's in Sudan whether it's in Gaza phase
four or five you know for for for our
viewers for context for our viewers here
it's based on how much food you have how
nutritious the food uh is that you are
eating if people are eating you know
grass as we've seen in some cases that's
not nutritious enough it doesn't sustain
you it doesn't sustain life uh and it's
also how many people actually die of
this uh of these food shortages you
mentioned
children what there's a KnockOn effect
for the next generation of course
now absolutely I mean you know talking
about children UNICEF predicts that
700,000 children will die in Sudan this
year alone even if we manage to act now
to prevent the famine these children
will die because we've already crossed
the thresholds you know in terms of
morbidity and it will be impossible to
save them but of course as you say for a
lot of them the impact will be long term
you know the inability to be educated
the trauma of the violence that is not
um addressed you know the fact we will
for many years continue to live in
makeshift you know displacement or
Refugee um camps I mean that will
obviously have lasting impacts for
generations and it's a bit what we have
seen to be honest with some of the
children they are in well the young
soldiers if you want they are involved
in perpetrating the violence today these
were the childrens's of previous crises
in Sudan that didn't have a future yeah
they become vulnerable on so many levels
SAR Sara Pantano chief executive of
overseas development Institute thank you
very
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz